# AC207: Systems Development for Computational Science

##### -<ins>Course Description</ins>: Computation has emerged as the third pillar of science alongside the pillars of theory and experiment. Computational science is maturing rapidly and has found considerable and significant use in supporting scientists from various disciplines (including all engineering disciplines, mathematics, physics, chemistry, finance, biology, and data analysis to name a few). Many burgeoning scientists are still taught to write "a code" for some problem and to debug when things look wrong. Given the ever-increasing complexity of software solutions to scientific problems, this old paradigm is no longer tenable and at best inefficient. AC207 is an applications course highlighting the use of software engineering and computer science in solving scientific problems. You will learn the fundamentals of developing scientific software systems including abstract thinking, the handling of data, and assessment of computational approaches: all in the context of good software engineering practices.
##### -<ins>Project</ins>: You will develop a software library for a client (the teaching staff). The development of this library will leverage modern software development practices covered in the course. By the end of the semester, the client should be able to easily install and run your package. The project topic is automatic differentiation (AD). AD is a very broad area spanning computer science and mathematics with applications in fields across science and engineering. We will only briefly graze the surface of this fascinating technique; indeed, AD is broad enough that it could form an entire course in its own right. Even so, your final project is to write a python automatic differentiation library. You will work in groups of 3-4 students. The teaching staff will assign you to groups. Some members of the group will be stronger than others. It is expected that you work together and help each other out as needed. This is an opportunity for less experienced coders to drastically improve by working with more experienced coders. On the other hand, the more experienced coders will gain valuable experience in guiding a small development team. Every person must contribute. No single person should dominate the group.

