# IGA236: Cybersecurity--Technology, Policy, and Law

##### -<ins>Course Description</ins>: Cybersecurity has become a paramount concern: individual, organizational, and national. From cybercrime to national security, from corporate data collection to government surveillance, from cell phones to driverless cars—governance and policy issues surrounding Internet security are everywhere. As digital technology permeates all parts of our lives, the related issues are increasingly complex and multifaceted, touching on such things as personal freedom and autonomy, public safety, corporate behavior and profitability, international relations, and war. This course seeks to explore the intricate interplay of public policy issues in computer and Internet security. Over the course of the semester, we will survey the nature of Internet security threats, explore human factors surrounding security, and seek to understand the basics of the technologies. We will use our newfound expertise to examine a series of computer and Internet security policy issues, both current and near-future. Examples include government demands for encryption backdoors, software liabilities, surveillance reform, government cyber operations, and computer-crime law. While this class will primarily be US-focused, we also recognize the global nature of the borderless Internet, and we’ll discuss international tensions and norms. Cybersecurity is fundamentally technological, and any serious public policy discussion requires a firm understanding of the underlying technologies. Security is no exception. We will never get the policy right if we get the technology wrong. This class will attempt to bridge that gap.
##### -<ins>Project</ins>:  In 2017, Brad Smith of Microsoft proposed a "Digital Geneva Convention" to protect cyberspace from nation-state threats. This measure has not been picked up by the United Nations, but it has been debated in academia and the press. In this exercise, imagine that the measure is being considered by the United Nations—specifically, the provisions from page 2 of this link: https://query.prod.cms.rt.microsoft.com/cms/api/am/binary/RW67QH. Part 1:  You are a policy advisor to a mid-sized democratic country. Your government is concerned about cyberattacks from hostile countries, but also about surveillance by countries like the US. More importantly, though, your government wants to maintain its own offensive capabilities in cyberspace, which it feels is essential for survival in today's world. Your employer wishes you to propose one amendment (it can have sub-parts) to the Digital Geneva Convention. You should provide actual language for the proposed amendment. You should explain why the amendment should be approved exactly as it is written, specifically addressing objections that you anticipate may be raised by other countries. Your goal in this part of the essay is to persuade an undecided UN country to support this amendment before ratifying the Digital Geneva Convention. Part 2:  You are now an employee of Defending Digital Humanity (a hypothetical organization). The Mission of DDH is to "defend the digital rights of at risk users around the world." Your employer wishes you to propose one amendment (it can have sub-parts) to the Digital Geneva Convention. You should provide actual language for the proposed amendment. You should explain why the amendment should be approved exactly as it is written, specifically addressing objections that you anticipate may be raised by other governments. Your goal in this part of the essay is to persuade an undecided UN country to support this amendment before ratifying the Digital Geneva Convention. Part 3:  You are now an assistant to the UN Secretary General, who is undecided on the amendments. The Secretary General generally tries to balance national sovereignty with global governance. She wishes you to explain your own view on whether to support or oppose the two amendments proposed in Parts 1 and 2.
