# Assessing the Impact of Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions on Consumer Mobility Patterns and COVID-19 Transmission in the US

##### -<ins>Committee</ins>: Kevin Rader, Laura Seaman, Kosuke Imai
##### -<ins>Abstract</ins>: The outbreak of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Wuhan, China, during late December 2019 and the subsequent global pandemic markedly changed consumer mobility patterns worldwide, largely in response to government-ordered non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs). In this two-part study, we investigated these changes as they related to the initial spread of COVID-19 within two US states--Massachusetts (MA) and Michigan (MI). Specifically, we used mixed-effects modeling to quantify the relationship between four NPIs (i.e., national emergency, workplace closures, stay-at-home requirements, and gathering restrictions) and point-of-sale (POS) credit card transactions, as well as the relationship between subsequent changes in POS transactions and COVID-19 case growth rates at both the county and individual-level. Both analyses revealed a significant negative association between NPIs and POS transactions, in particular a dose-response relationship. Specifically, gathering restrictions and workplace closures possessed the strongest associations with decreased POS transactions. Both analyses also uncovered a significant positive association between lagged changes in POS transactions compared to pre-pandemic baselines and COVID-19 case growth rates. The optimal consumer mobility lag period varied across states, as the strongest association between changes in POS transactions and COVID-19 case growth rates occurred at a mobility lag of 12-14 days within MA and 8-10 days within MI. Overall, this study supports previous findings that early NPIs effectively reduced human mobility and COVID-19 transmission in the US.
##### -<ins>Keywords</ins>: Social Distancing Measures, COVID-19, Mobility, Mixed-Effects Modeling, Longitudinal Study, Policy Analysis

